0101
This strategy attempts to detect the opponent’s static strategy and counter it with a best response strategy. It assumes only two options for the opponent’s strategy. The opponent’s strategy is analyzed by computing the Pearson correlation between the indices of the cards played by the opponent and the upcard indices. If the opponent tends to play high-value cards for high-value upcards (and correspondingly low-value cards for low-value upcards), i.e., the Pearson correlation is higher than a certain threshold-value (0.2), the strategy is labeled as “nonrandom,” otherwise it is labeled as “random.” As long as the opponent’s strategy is labeled as a “random” strategy, 0101 will play a card matching the value of the upcard. Otherwise, if the opponent’s cards have a high a correlation with the upcards, 0101 strategy will play cards with a slightly higher value for the upcards with values greater-or-equal than seven (case 1), and cards with low random values for upcards with values less than seven (case 2). This is done by playing the lowest unused card with a value greater than the upcard value in case 1 or, if that cannot be done, the highest unused card with a value smaller than the upcard value. For upcards with values less than seven, 0101 will play cards with a lower value than the upcard and, if that cannot be done, the lowest unused card with the highest value. 

0102
This strategy attempts to identify and exploit the opponent’s play by using a simple static rule-based mechanism. The opponent’s strategies are classified into four categories. Category 1 plays the same card as the upcard on every move; category 2 plays the card one point higher than the upcard; category 3 plays the card two points higher than the upcard; and category 4 contains all strategies that are not contained in other categories. 0102 identifies the opponent’s strategy in the first round and assigns it into one of the four categories, treating it as a fixed strategy. If the opponent’s strategy is labeled as category 1, 0102 plays the card one point higher than the upcard on every move. If the opponent’s strategy is labeled as category 2, 0102 plays the card two points higher than the upcard on every move. If the opponent’s strategy is labeled as category 3, 0102 plays the card three points higher than the upcard on every move. If the opponent’s strategy is labeled as category 4, 0102 plays the card equivalent to the upcard on every move. If 0102 wins less than 30 points in any round after round 1, it switches to a random strategy

0103
This strategy has three main components. First, 0103 attempts to detect obvious patterns, such as an opponent playing the same card in response to a certain upcard, or cards that an opponent always uses in a certain order. Second, 0103 follows a preset strategy when failing to detect the opponent’s playing pattern. Finally, when there are two cards left in each hand, 0103 computes, and plays, the best response. 1) 0103 Strategy Description: Note that one can win any round of Goofspiel by winning just a few high-value cards. 0103 initially selects a subset of cards “to win” and plays a “highvalue” card when each of these cards appears. For the other cards, it selects randomly from its non-“high-value” cards. In each subsequent round, the game plan is modified when an opponent’s pattern is detected. Table I shows the strategy of 0103. All the results from previously played cards are recorded. These include: what upcards have been used, what opponent cards have been used, how many times a certain card has been used in response to a certain upcard, etc. If the opponent’s pattern is detected, the game plan will be updated. 0103 responds with a card according to the modified game plan. In 0103, there are five characteristics of cards that the strategy handles:

0110
0110 is built on a set of four static strategies. The idea is to
play the strategy that continues to win against the opponent’s
strategy. If 0110 loses two rounds in a row, then it activates the
next strategy in this set of four. The idea is based on the notion
that the most successful strategy against a given opponent ought
to play most often. In the set of four strategies, strategy 1 is
a static strategy designed to win against strategies of the type
value , where is fixed. Strategy 2 does not directly take into
account the up value card but only responds to the opponent’s
previous last play for the upcard. Strategy 3 is a static strategy
that targets specific cards. Strategy 4 is activated in all cases by
playing at random after a win is assured (points 45)